somebody at home right now is listening
they want to have the change that want
to have the breakthrough yeah what the
[__] do they do is so okay well that's
that's different front like if we're
talking about identity I'm talking about
oh that's the process of if I'm
onboarding someone into my bits like
into my I love that yeah so I think that
we'll get into the nitty-gritty of yeah
like what you're trying to tease out so
they're doing the diagnostic it's
telling you yeah it's telling me where
they need training like where they
haven't spent much time on mastering the
mental and the emotional part of their
game okay right cuz we're trying to is
this reminiscent of a personality test
nah well there's there's there's
elements of that but you know I use a
whole bunch of different Diagnostics
because I am NOT a believer like there's
so many people who are out there or like
I'm an INF GA or infj or whatever it is
from myers-briggs and I'm like boy again
what a fantastic way to trap your and
limit yourself because people love to
say you know that's why personality
tests and all these quizzes online are
so popular they go viral because they go
i'ma this people love to discover more
about themselves but what it actually
does is it traps many people because
they're like I'm an introvert and
introverts don't blah blah blah whatever
they say it's like okay great now you're
gonna live through that when you hear
that you hear alright this person has a
label now yeah label has created
limitations well they're no longer
recognizing that they're actually a
multitude of and what's interesting is I
don't know what word you would use their
personalities traits multiple events no
multiple of identities so identity okay
so now real fast define identity what
does it encompass an identity
encompasses I talked about in chapter 3
of the book the different layers that
gets tacked on so you know at this core
of what we are is just like pure
possibility like we can we can move in
many directions with our with the kind
of inborn talents of what it means to be
a human being okay so there's a core
possibility outside of that creates what
I call this kind of core drivers layer
core drivers are things that you've that
are that you've attached yourself to and
that are attached to you because of your
your race your religion your values
where you're from
because people don't realize just how
much that stuff shapes them you know
well I'm black so that means that this
or I'm white and that means there's a
I'm Asian or I'm a Catholic Ramat you or
have you have you heard that study where
if you take an Asian woman who's about
to take a math test and stereotypically
women are worse at math and
stereotypically Asians are better at
math yeah and if you prime her by saying
oh you're a woman I wonder how well
you're gonna do on the test they'll do
worse but if you take that same person
and prime them oh you're Asian
I wonder how will you doing the test
yeah then they'll do better yeah that is
so crazy to me yeah and when I was
diving into some of your research that
was what I was thinking is like that
there's some of the you're taking
control of the priming essentially yes
so all right so keep going understand so
core drivers sit there and again even
being a part of a larger group or like
military man police officer you know
this so we we have these labels and now
because we they're they're the things
that really can help either block
someone's possibility or you know
unleash it in many ways we see that the
Olympics where someone who's coming out
of nowhere but now because they're
wearing the know the red white and blue
on their back or the red and white from
Canada or the wherever from somewhere
else they just level up because of what
it means to now represent their country
other people conversely I can't use it
with them because I've worked with you
know well over 100 Olympians that
actually crushes their performance like
it's just too much way it's too much or
they actually don't care some people
don't care like it's that's not
meaningful to them that they're an
American or a Canadian or a Brit or a
Tozzi whatever the cases so so that's
the core drivers and then outside of
that I call it the belief layer so
that's where your attitudes your
perceptions your beliefs about you or
the world around you sit okay this is
all shaping that identity and it's
shaping it in the different areas of our
life and the roles that we play that of
an entrepreneur that of a parent father
husband wife you know lover brother
sister mom like all those that we have
and that's why it's important that we
sort of peel away the layer or peel away
and show that no you
many identities and we can shape you
know you get to shape yourself because
that you're doing it anyway I'm not I'm
not explaining anything to anyone that
is not grounded in gravity like it's
real its truth
we have many identities we just don't
think about it but I'm trying to build
awareness so that people can see it and
they go oh because once you build the
awareness all bets are off with people
because now do you have like archetypes
of alter egos that you push people
towards depending on what they're trying
to accomplish
I love archetype stuff but that's
probably where it's a little bit
intuitive but not necessarily you know
the the natural lean when you talk about
this is people talk about you know like
bringing that kind of like lion to
things or that roar or whatever but I
have one client she's in the book where
I talk about you know that never
resonates she's this real soft-spoken
like super kind person and her trying to
bring out like an inner lion thing
wasn't wouldn't work but for her she's
German she has a she has a deep history
in her family of like exploration being
in the outdoors and she had this really
great reverence for a buck like a male
deer and for her it was like the way
that it stands its ground despite the
fact that a bear is coming off that's
what people don't people don't see the
fights between a wild buck and a bear or
a cougar where it fights it off with its
antlers mmm you don't see that they
always see the kill but sometimes the
prey wins and and a big male buck will
will do that and fight with its antlers
fight as well but for her what she
needed because she was a business owner
and she again very common thing where
she ran a sort of a freelance marketing
company and you know scope creep you
know it's like so now she's but she's
building a website for someone I go you
know what we need some brochures done
too you know can you add that on yeah
I'll do that too and because she's so
nice and kind all this and now she's
completely unprofitable or she's just
making you know a laughable amount an
hour so the way that she started showing
up in her business was through this lens
of a buck that stands its ground
and honors the fact that she's valuable
like she is what she has is valuable and
people need to respect that lion wasn't
gonna do that
so no archetypes I don't push people
towards certain ones and at the end of
the day the most common sort of alter
ego identity that people adopt is
actually grandmas if there was a
category Amma's and grandmas because in
order for you to either elite performers
not renounce your cops and these are
these are people that are either in in
the business world grandmas aren't
popular necessarily in the sports world
that's not where so I'm coming with
grandma so it and again you're not
becoming the grandma you're adopting the
traits the qualities or the abilities
that you admire about your grandmother
okay I've got a really wealthy man in in
New York who's a client for a long time
and he was kind of a traditional Wall
Street type that just railroaded himself
towards success burned out and churned
out a lot of leaders in his business but
now he had a very large private equity
business and his leadership team was
burning out quite a bit and so when I
started working with him his identity
needed to change because he was now in a
completely different role that what got
him to be successful right so that
hard-charging thing that really helped
him but that's not working now that's
gonna break his business so he needed to
step into a new identity couldn't figure
out a way to do that so when I was
talking about like well who do you
respect like who do you admire as great
leaders of business or just leaders in
general and he was talking about like
Jack wells or Sumner Redstone and and
these names were coming out and so I
kind about it just talking to him I
could get that he wasn't like
emotionally connected to that idea hmm
so then I just asked him what his family
cuz I knew a bit about it I mean I knew
his history and he started talking to me
about his his grandmother her husband
died in the Holocaust she had four young
boys brought them over to America
classic story of you know settling in
the Lower East Side with nothing seventy
dollars in her pocket raising these four
amazing young men all going on to have
to success my client was the son of of
one of them and you know just talked
with great reverence about just how like
amazingly nurturing she was but really
strong with an iron rod up her back with
like the values of how we operate as a
family and and I said that's that's who
your identity is so how did people then
grab that and actually put it to use
because you were talking earlier about
you know you need a uniform and do you
have the uniform of the dad you walk in
so I'm thinking what's the uniform of
the grandmother but I'm guessing you're
gonna say it's not quite how it works
yet so there's again there's there's
different ways to activate this so I
went on you know continuing on with that
it's like actively like getting him to
realize well what are those qualities
that you just appreciate about your
grandma like what is it about it because
the reason well what are those qualities
one of those attributes and where those
traits and then so yeah a uniform really
helps something we call them totems and
artifacts something that physical that
you can put on that can help you step
into that because again we're acting
with this intention now is you're
choosing it and and that item represents
what you're activating so for him there
was no thing there was no something
there isn't something that he was gonna
go put on but there was another quality
that we use is something that you use in
your environment so he had a framed
photo of his grandmother and he wasn't
going to be like you know acting through
this identity throw his entire date but
it was when he needed to have
conversations with his leadership team
that he needed to like you know pump the
brake on his extraordinarily aggressive
personality and and start you know
acting with a completely different
intention so anytime he was about to
have a leadership conversation he had
this frame of his grandma sitting on his
on his credenza on his desk story and it
was we we like to create triggers so
there was a switch so he would turn that
frame so now she was facing him what's
the importance of the triggers that's
really interesting to me the importance
of it is to create rituals
and why why does that matter because
human beings are are grounded in rituals
and there is an it's almost like an
honoring ceremony because what I want
you to do is I want you to I don't want
you to dishonor the memory or the spirit
of whatever or whoever it is that you
are activating by not truly acting
through the qualities of that individual
so the conversation with him is is like
now you know choose your grandmother
very carefully because you you cannot go
into a conversation with your leadership
team and act the way that you do and
dishonor the way that your grandmother
would handle that by you acting in this
completely you know kind of wild and you
know swear Laden way because she
wouldn't do that
so that trigger again it's just it helps
to send a signal through your entire
electrical system that something
different is happening so interesting
are you familiar with Tony Robbins and
this whole idea of state change Cheryl
VESA sure and that's really interesting
to me and there's something so
fascinating about the human ability to
change your state like reading your
stuff about alter egos and I was like
okay this is interesting there's
something about for anybody that that
doesn't quite have their hooks into this
yet do the following exercise sit down
close your eyes and think smile yeah and
what's weird is you will feel the change
like you'll feel a neurochemical change
just by thinking smile yeah like you're
not actually moving the muscles you're
just thinking about the smile yeah my
gut instinct is if you sat there long
enough thinking smile you'd actually
start to smile and then to take this to
where you started that ritualistic move
there's something about birthing it
through physicality yes that and
actually be really curious to understand
the research or yeah you know the the
underlying physiological thing so I have
this obsession with physiological hooks
so there there is something about
your mindset to physicality sure that is
incredibly important like when you see
people trying to do a state change
athletes will do this all the [__]
time
yeah and I've done this I do this
sometimes if I don't want to get in a
cold shower and I'm like [__] yeah I
don't want to do this yeah and I have to
like state change it
I'll [__] pound my chest there's I
don't know what it is but dude you do
that and boom it's like I've got the
aggression I have exactly what I need to
tackle this and to just completely I
always think of it in terms of frame of
reference but my gut instinct is if I
were to define frame of reference and
you were to define alter ego we would
find that they're similar they may
exactly overlap but it's a no a very
similar I mean I've seen a lot of stuff
you mean you talked a lot about identity
with people right like you're you're you
you're dancing around the stuff that
I've been working with people on for you
know 22 years really alter ego stuff is
what came into my practice in 2003-2004
because I just started to discover that
this was the golden thread that was
weaving together all of these elite
people that I was now starting to work
with where they were talking about I've
got this persona that I stepped into
I've got this other kind of identity I
have this character that I use and you
know I played college football at a high
level I was a nationally ranked Bama
player I played sport at a high level
not pro but I was a good athlete and my
responses back to those people was
always like oh that's really cool
because I use I use that as well it was
more like an interesting kind of
connection point and then it was me
preparing a US swimmer a lady for the
Athens Games back in 2004 where's just
the way that she said it worse all of a
sudden all of these dominoes of past
conversations came together and I was
like wait a second there is this
consistency amongst the people were
consistently performing at their best
they keep on referencing this idea
there's something there do you know
who's Sasha Fierce is of course I know
Sasha Fierce is yeah absolutely
to me is when I heard so for anybody
listening that doesn't know who Sasha
Fierce is that's Beyonce is the alter
ego on stage and I thought wow that's so
interesting that somebody that
successful uses this technique to have
the
bawls essentially to go out on stage to
own it to be fierce and she needed it
you know when you take a look at her
story she's a gospel singing young black
girl from Houston Texas who people would
show up every Sunday they can't wait to
hear beyonce saying gospel songs her dad
recognizing her talent and her love for
music gets her and Solange inside of a
dance group there's eight of them and
now Beyonce who's used to dressing very
modestly in a church environment singing
gospel hymns and songs is now asked to
sing provocative music dancing
provocatively
she had a real internal-combustion over
this right now I want people to track
this are there some things that you've
got some internal-combustion over right
now that you're resisting against
because you have a tough time seeing
yourself do it despite the fact that you
want to manifest it you want to pursue
that entrepreneurial career you want to
pursue that acting or that singing or
you want to get out there okay so she
then created Sasha Fierce someone else
another identity to go out there that
loved going out there performing loved
the provocative loved dancing that way
and that's who she would step into and
activate when she went out there now all
of a sudden she could protect for
herself that sort of more innocent
Beyonce
you